terraform/s3/README.md, before:

There are various buckets and they should be created/deprecated in this order:

## 1. (New) MANUAL TERRAFORM SETUP FOR NEWSKIT TF STATE BUCKETS

These one-off steps were done using a local terminal.

(1) Set the TF version to match that used by the aws-cli-and-terraform executor in .circleci/config.yml

(If you don't have tfenv installed, use brew to install it.)

```
tfenv install 1.2.1
tfenv use 1.2.1
```

(2) Login to saml2aws for command line access to newscorp AWS.

(If you don't have saml2aws installed and configured, you first need to follow https://nidigitalsolutions.jira.com/wiki/spaces/NCP/pages/2288845143/Saml2Aws+setup+guide, taking note of the clarifications in the comments.)

```
saml2aws login
```
Select from the list of accounts:
```
Account: nuk-digital-dev-newskit (696065950852) / nct-sysadmin
```
OR
```
Account: nuk-digital-prod-newskit (005057636819) / nct-sysadmin
```

(3) Get the AWS temporary credentials in a place that Terraform can read them from.

First, get the credentials and output them to the screen:

```
aws --profile newscorp configure
export AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE=~/.aws/credentials
cat $AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE
```

Second, copy and paste just these essential values into env vars, like so:

export AWS_ACCESS_KEY=(aws_access_key_id value)
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=(aws_secret_access_key value)
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=(aws_session_token value)

(4) Type in a simple AWS read command to check the credentials are working, eg

```
aws --profile newscorp ec2 describe-instances
```
should bring back an empty array.

(5) Get around the Terraform's [chicken and egg problem](https://github.com/newsuk/nuk-rfcs/blob/main/active/0044-infrastructure-as-code.md#chicken-vs-egg-problem) by going to the appropriate remote-state folder for the env you selected in step 2.

`cd ./dev-newskit/remote-state` OR `cd ./prod-newslit/remote-state`

Then apply the Terraform to create a Terraform state bucket for the future docs buckets.

```
terraform get -update
terraform init -backend=false
terraform plan -out=backend.plan
terraform apply backend.plan
```


## 2. (New) AUTOMATED TERRAFORM SETUP FOR NEWSKIT ACCOUNTS

The Terraform directly under the dev-newskit and prod-newskit folders should NOT be run manually but via CircleCI. See the deploy_to_s3_dev/deploy_to_s3_staging/deploy_to_s3_prod steps in `.circleci/config.yaml`.


## 3. (Deprecated) AUTOMATED TERRAFORM SETUP FOR NGN DEV ACCOUNT

The Terraform directly under the s3 folders should NOT be run manually but via CircleCI. See the deploy_to_s3_pr step in `.circleci/config.yaml`.

It is just used to create and populate the NGN S3 docs buckets that
is full of PR folders. These root-level files will be removed in a future release
as the Newskit dev account has a bucket reserved for PRs.

Commit message:

chore(PPDSC-2732): migrate staging docs from k8s to S3

terraform/s3/README.md, after:

There are various buckets and they will be created/deprecated (over time) in this order.

Task 1 (below) must be done once at the start of the migration by any developer with admin access to the newskit AWS accounts.
ie
Account: nuk-digital-dev-newskit (696065950852) / nct-sysadmin
Account: nuk-digital-prod-newskit (005057636819) / nct-sysadmin

Task 2 is ensuring that automated pipeline is running. It depends on task 1 as the pipeline stores the generated Terraform state in the new bucket that task1 creates.

Task 3 should done only at the end of the migration any developer with admin access to th newskit AWS accounts.
ie When the PR docs bucket has been fully replaced by the equivalent PR docs bucket in the newskit AWS accounts AND the new PR docs buckets have been automatically populated by new CircleCI steps.


## 1. (New) MANUAL TERRAFORM SETUP FOR NEWSKIT TF STATE BUCKETS

These one-off steps were done using a local terminal.

(1) Set the TF version to match that used by the aws-cli-and-terraform executor in .circleci/config.yml

(If you don't have tfenv installed, use brew to install it.)

```
tfenv install 1.2.1
tfenv use 1.2.1
```

(2) Login to saml2aws for command line access to newscorp AWS.

(If you don't have saml2aws installed and configured, you first need to follow https://nidigitalsolutions.jira.com/wiki/spaces/NCP/pages/2288845143/Saml2Aws+setup+guide, taking note of the clarifications in the comments.)

```
saml2aws login
```
Select from the list of accounts:
```
Account: nuk-digital-dev-newskit (696065950852) / nct-sysadmin
```
OR
```
Account: nuk-digital-prod-newskit (005057636819) / nct-sysadmin
```

(3) Get the AWS temporary credentials in a place that Terraform can read them from.

First, get the credentials and output them to the screen:

```
aws --profile newscorp configure
export AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE=~/.aws/credentials
cat $AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE
```

Second, copy and paste just these essential values into env vars, like so:

export AWS_ACCESS_KEY=(aws_access_key_id value)
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=(aws_secret_access_key value)
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=(aws_session_token value)

(4) Type in a simple AWS read command to check the credentials are working, eg

```
aws --profile newscorp ec2 describe-instances
```
should bring back an empty array.

(5) Get around the Terraform's [chicken and egg problem](https://github.com/newsuk/nuk-rfcs/blob/main/active/0044-infrastructure-as-code.md#chicken-vs-egg-problem) by going to the appropriate remote-state folder for the env you selected in step 2.

`cd ./dev-newskit/remote-state` OR `cd ./prod-newslit/remote-state`

Then apply the Terraform to create a Terraform state bucket for the future docs buckets.

```
terraform get -update
terraform init -backend=false
terraform plan -out=backend.plan
terraform apply backend.plan
```


## 2. (New) AUTOMATED TERRAFORM SETUP FOR NEWSKIT ACCOUNTS

The Terraform directly under the dev-newskit and prod-newskit folders should NOT be run manually but via CircleCI. See the deploy_to_s3_dev/deploy_to_s3_staging/deploy_to_s3_prod steps in `.circleci/config.yaml`.


## 3. (Deprecated) AUTOMATED TERRAFORM SETUP FOR NGN DEV ACCOUNT

The Terraform directly under the s3 folders should NOT be run manually but via CircleCI. See the deploy_to_s3_pr step in `.circleci/config.yaml`.

It is just used to create and populate the NGN S3 docs buckets that
is full of PR folders. These root-level files will be removed in a future release
as the Newskit dev account has a bucket reserved for PRs.

A developer will need to do:
```
terraform destroy
```

directly under /s3 folder to remove the legacy NGN S3 buckets originally created for PR docs.
